# Minutes du CapMeth 11/02/2017


## Présents:
* Ozanne, Olivier, Clement, Aurelie, Emilie (scribe), Jerome, Luc (scribe), Mehdi, Benoit, Francis 

## Agenda for the meeting

* Agenda: https://github.com/echopen/PRJ-commty_method/blob/master/20170211CAPMeth.md

* Idea: 
_find a way to follow up with the project, at the general level and at the project level - based on existing. Tools are being used, some processes already exist: how can we improve?_

## Status as of Today

All the content is on github today. How can we use at best existing resources?

@aurelie comments:
* Documentation is required: especially accessibility and sustainability of the documentation 
* Also needed is the flow of information between the sub-projects: remove silos between specialities.
* Need to stop taking decisions separately
@olivier
* Decisions: to be taken by a group?
* Comité de coordination: meeting all mondays at 7pm - to discuss issues and take 

@emilie:
* need to prioritize the different actions
* ex: at the norms levels, things are not moving as fast as they could.
* ex: if the probe is not done for the trial
* A global calendar needs to be developed, and key milestones need to be clear for everyone.
* We need something else than the drive


@mehdi: two needs
* How can we onboard new contributors
* How can we distribute information properly

Reunion de coordination:
* Need to decentralize the sharing of information
* Need to create links betweens the different groups

@clement: his needs
* Information: 
* Articulation with people not on slack (Muriel, Bitmakers, …)

* @mehdi: BM needs to deliver what he promises
* @emilie: BM is duplicating the efforts, for example work by BM on US uses. Relation needs to be clarified. @olivier: Communication with them is inefficient

* @aurelie: lots of duplicate information (when @olivier: people read the doc: very clear, people interested, …).
Starterkit: too long, people don’t read it, … : really a problem: people have time, but they don’t know how to contribute.
* @emilie: it’s sad to see that some people’s contribution are forgotten / not used.

* @benoit: notes that everything he knows has been communicated orally.


* @emilie: it’s far less efficient to be offline
* @benoit/emilie : two times: production, and communication. Ex, slack: not usable in terms of production. The most efficient to learn is to exchange face to face.


@emilie: question of time to do, and to document. Need to spend time on producing a synthesis. for example, an internship gives the time.
@benoit: interesting: 1h to work, +½h work of synthesis.

Four steps:
* Asking for information: where can I contribute?
* production - doing, noting 
* synthesis - explaining
* sharing // synchronisation - sharing

* @mehdi: need to reintroduce this 3-month meeting (steering committees) - vision meta necessary.
behind: need for minutes

* @emilie: our agenda are all different: the difficulty compared to a company is  the difficulty to ask for inputs from contributors.

@benoit: what was working: 
* binoms 
* time-delayed binoms 
* extra-small groups with one with physical access to HD 
* astreintes : need to have someone permanent
* For example: newcomers can be accompanied by someone already in the community

* @mehdi: config file
* @emilie: need for a synthesis - 
* @olivier: travail de synthèse is necessary
* @mehdi; need for a general overview:
* @clement: team of 100 ppl - all aspects are considered. Méthodologie agile+ -> Objectifs à un niveau Epic ->   Feature -> User story: courant. sprints de 2 semaines, cycles de 3 mois.
* Exchanges at the story level. Scrummaster: in charge of exchanges. One person needs to coordinate. One or several people from a group to explain what

* @benoit: notion de “client”: “product owner” chez @clement.
* @benoit: gestion de projet “pro” : how to apply for an association and probono?
* @mehdi: contributors/contributions valorisation should be the topic of a specific event.

* @emilie: monday meetings should happen for the different sub-projects. To gather the contributions. Send synthesis and/or present it in live if possible (2min)
* @olivier : Git hub ++

* @mehdi/olivier: how can we structure the different groups, for example on gitbook ? Architecture needs to be thought about
* @benoit : our difficulty : no unity of time and space
* @clement/benoit : What is the aim of all different subproject ->> necessity to have a clear objective
* @benoit: approches client -> “need oriented design / production”
Francis arrived
* Cadre épique: besoin de définir 
* @francis : centraliser / distribuer 

* @aurelie; probleme de process / d’automatisation -> sometimes information is lost.

* @benoit: objectifs: time objectives: we’re all probono, so we can’t plan in terms of time. The asso can’t determine -> the path needs to be defined and clear , but we can’t 
* @Mehdi : to fix deadlines,
* @emilie: a team for appel à projet si: need for a github repo with past request for proposals - which would support the recycling of some parts for new funding requests.

* @luc: think we could address partners financing (eg Institut français d’alger has funds for algerian associations - where echopen can support).
* @emilie/olivier: interested to see a team to search for funding (bourses par ex, …) 
-> create a dedicated channel 

* @benoit: reminds that the core of our activities is probono - including part time, people we don’t choose, 




## 2nd PART : HOW DO WE ASSURE THE FLOW OF INFORMATION?

* @benoit : virtual corporate, organisationnal tree 
* @francis : pb corporate , jeu de piste pour récupére l’info 
* @benoit : have tasks independant of individals 


Structure proposed by @bivi (left) and @emilie (right)

![](/images/tableau.jpg)


* @francis: key role of maintainers, especially through the “rapporteur” for the group.
* @mehdi: shows the example of himself, doing the minutes of the sigproc meeting.
* @mehdi: 3-monthly objectives to be determined 
* @emilie: need to animate the documentation dynamic 

Point of access simple -> both questions access and communication 

* @benoit: recommends using a well-known method, especially one known by one of us.
* @francis/olivier : sprints -> 15j : ideal for us.
* @clément : how do we close a story? 
* @emilie : do a meeting with at least one person per project to reassess objectives
* @Mehdi : Fondation Altran qui fournisse une force de travail avec objectif à 6 mois. Le 22 février il y a quelqu’un qui vient si on est sélectionné à la fin (80% de chance). Mécénat de compétence.  
* @Luc : ne pas faire de redondance, attention lors de l’aggrégation 


## After lunch 

Next steps:
* Compte-rendus / docs dans les repos 
* dossier CR/doc dédié dans chaque repo de sous-projet avec nommage correspondant : CR-date-... , DOC-date-..., CFG-date-..., etc...
* Tâches: les mettre dans l’onglet projet -> utiliser l’onglet projet sur github
* Repo dédié à la gestion macro du projet. Utilisation de l’onglet projet pour définir les macro-tâches. Ce repo est maintenu par les coordinateurs des différents sous-projets
* Attention au nommage - liens entre micro et macrotâches dans les issues dans les projets → relier les micro-tâches dans les sous-projets aux macros-tâches 
* @benoît : parser github automatiquement à partir du serveur web gandi pour générer la documentation sous forme de site statique : comptes-rendus, configurations de prototypes, ...

Workflow Github :
* droits sur le github echopen a minima pour les coordinateurs
* il faut créer des teams : une team par sous-projet

Rythme / calendrier :
* @benoît : la réunion du lundi doit être le rendez-vous de suivi de projet. Chaque groupe envoie un émissaire (coordinateur ou remplaçant…) pour faire le point sur l’avancement des tâches
* un workshop par mois, le vendredi soir, pour clôturer les tâches accomplies le mois précédent et définir le next steps / deadlines
* a 3 month meeting to update the trimonthly objectives 
* @emilie : + création d’un channel slack appel à projet/bourse? 



